Propose definition for suicide (#163)
tatianamac/selfdefined: 11ty/definitions/suicide.md

> flag:

Reviewer: I can't highlight it but you'll need to change the `defined:` to `true` above

  level: warning
  text: content warning
reading:
  - text: "Mental Health Foundation: Suicide"
  href: https://www.mentalhealth.org.uk/a-to-z/s/suicide
  - text: "Samaritans: Best Practice Suicide Reporting Tips"
  href: https://www.samaritans.org/about-samaritans/media-guidelines/best-practice-suicide-reporting-tips/
---
the deliberate act of voluntarily ending one's own life. Motivation for suicide can be the result of conscious or unconscious thoughts and feelings.

> ## Issues

Reviewer: I would rename this to ## Usage Notes, as the word suicide itself isn't the issue, but rather its incorrect usage (it's a bit pedantic, but I think important to articulate the nuance here).

> Commonly referred to in conversation and journalism as "committed suicide" or similar. This has negative connotations with criminality and judgement, and places blame on the individual. Can also be used in combination with a related measure of "success" which promotes suicide as a desirable result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commonly referred to in conversation and journalism as "committed suicide", "took their own life", or similar, which can have negative connotations with criminality and judgement, and can place blame on the individual. Can also be used in combination with a related measure of "success" which promotes suicide as a desirable result.
```

## Impact

Unless used with sensitivity and care, discussion of suicide can reinforce negative stereotypes and stigma around mental illness. Sensationalist reporting of suicide also risks inadvertently promoting suicide.

## Usage Tips

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When discussing suicide and suicidal ideation:
```

> - When discussing suicide, avoid mentioning details of methods used and suggesting that these are "easy" or "painless" to reduce the risk of imitation. Also avoid suggesting that suicide is an "easy way out".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid mentioning details of methods used and suggesting that these are "easy" or "painless" to reduce the risk of imitation. 
- Avoid suggesting that suicide is an "easy way out".
```

> - Avoid speculation over possible triggers: Suicide is complex and not necessarily the result of a single event. Attempting to explain away suicide with a specific cause downplays the wider circumstances and the impact on all those affected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid speculation over possible triggers: Suicide and suicidal ideation is complex and not necessarily the result of a single event or condition. Attempting to explain away suicide with a specific cause or condition downplays the wider circumstances and the impact on all those affected.
```

Reviewer: I'd also make a note about prepending a content warning before speaking about suicide early on in the list of suggestions.

> - Rather than saying that a person "committed suicide", instead say that a person "died by suicide". This frames suicide as a symptom of wider conditions and the individual as a victim rather than a perpetrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Instead of saying that a person "committed suicide", say that a person "died by suicide." Framing suicide as a symptom of wider/unknown-to-us conditions validates the individual as a victim, rather than a perpetrator.
```

> - Discussing or reporting on suicide can be an opportunity to signpost the support available and educate people about the importance of mental wellbeing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Discussing or reporting on suicide can be an opportunity to signpost the support available and educate people about the importance of mental wellbeing.
- Include local resources for people to gain help, such as links to suicide hotlines, mental health resources, etc.
- Follow [Reporting on Suicide](https://reportingonsuicide.org/)'s guidelines (or similar linked resources below), especially if your reporting will be largely publicised.
```
